>> Nina Zakharenko: The way that git
stores things as in git objects, and
their basic one is called a blob.
So git stores compressed data in a blob,
along with some metadata about
that blob in the header.
It stores the word blob thing, this is
a blob, and then the size of the content.
Followed by a /0 delimiter, and
that's the null string terminator in C,
and finally the content.
>> Nina Zakharenko: The way that git
does this under the hood is with
a plumbing command called
Git Dash Hash-Object.
So if we ask the Git for
the SHA1 of this string,
Hello comma World exclamation point.
We can do that by echoing this string
that just prints it out in our terminal,
use the pipe to pipe it into this command.
And then we use the --stdin
flag to say get this
input from the terminal,
from standard input.
Otherwise, it expects a file and
we get this long string,
Aab686
>> Nina Zakharenko: Now,
let's generate the SHA1 of the contents
with the metadata as it's stored in Git.
There are many tools available for
many systems to generate the SHA1 hash.
On my Mac, I use openssl sha1.
So now when I generate
the hash of that content blob,
the size, the terminator, and Hello,
World, I get the same number.
It's a match.
If you run the hash method
on the same content twice,
you'll always get the same result.
And that's really one of the core
fundamental features of git.
Because of this,
blobs are generally unique in git.
And the likelihood of a collision,
meaning that two pieces of content
generate the same are infinitely small.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Now where
does GIT store these objects?
It stores them in the dot GIT directory.
So when you run GIT Init in a directory,
GIT will tell you that it
initialized an empty GIT repository,
it will give you the path,
and the docket directory.
So that .git directory contains all
of the data about our repository.
If we delete the .git directory, we blow
our repository away, but not our files.
Now, where are the blobs stored?
I'm gonna run the command
that I did previously to
ask git hash-object, except for
this time, I'm going to be passing in
the -w flag before the --stdin flag.
And, that's asking git to go ahead and
write that blob.
For the purpose of this demo, I'm just
going to delete the .git/hooks directory,
so that you see a little
bit of a cleaner output.
We don't need that for now.
Now, when I use the tree command
to look in my .git directory.
I'll see that I have
a directory called Objects.
It has a subdirectory that starts with 8A
and then a file that starts with B6A6.
So our blob is stored in
that objects directory.
The directory starts with the first
two characters of the hash and
then the file is the rest of the
characters but, we need something else.
>> Nina Zakharenko: That
blob is missing information.
It's missing some critical things,
if we're working with files,
not just from input from the terminal.
We don't have filenames, and
we don't have directory structures either.
So If we save a file as a blob,
how do we know what that file was called
and what directory it was stored in?
Git stores this information
in something called a tree.
So the tree,
>> Nina Zakharenko: It
contains a few things.
It contains pointers,
using SHA1, to blobs.
And it also contains pointers
to other trees, and why is that?
It's because subdirectories can be nested,
right?
>> Nina Zakharenko: The tree
also has some metadata.
It stores the type of pointer.
For blob it was blob.
For a blob it's blob,
for a tree it's tree.
It stores a file name or the directory
name of the thing that it is pointing to
and it also stores a mode that is
the file executable is the symbolic link.
Things that are important when
you pull down the repo again.
For example if you are storing a script
and that script is executable,
the next person who goes and pulls down
your repo will have an executable script.
They don't have to change permissions or
do anything special.
>> Nina Zakharenko: So
here we have our tree.
In the previous example,
I calculated the size.
It was just the amount of characters.
In this example, I have a placeholder.
We have that \0 terminator and,
we have a blob that points to hello.txt.
I have this kind of simple
directory structure.
I have hello.txt,
a folder called copies, and
in that copies folder I have
a file called hello-copy.txt.
So the blob points to hello.txt and
the tree points to the copies directory.
>> Nina Zakharenko: So, just a note
that the copies directory here,
it has a file in it.
All right, show of hands, has anyone
tried to add an empty directory to git?
Yeah, it doesn't work, right?
You can't, so
git doesn't store empty directories.
The issue isn't with empty trees,
those work just fine.
It's a limitation in the staging area.
Which we're gonna talk
about in the next section.
So the staging area, that one only keeps
track of files and not directories, so
we can't store empty directories.
>> Nina Zakharenko: So, trees.
They point to other trees and blobs.
They're a directed graph.
>> Nina Zakharenko: And because of the
feature of the Sha1, where if you run that
algorithm on a piece of content,
it always returns the shame sha1.
In git,
identical content is only stored once.
So we have our directory structure
from the previous example.
We have a tree here.
The first blob points to hello.txt.
We have another tree, in this tree
where does that tree point to?
Which directory?
Can anyone tell me.
>> Speaker 2: Copies?
>> Nina Zakharenko: That's right,
it points to copies and
in copies I have hello-copy.txt,
an it's an exact copy of my hello file.
So, that tree points to
another tree ,where,
and that one has a blog that
points to hello-copy.txt.
Now that blob points to the same place.
We can see that the sha1s here match.
>> Nina Zakharenko: And
this is really, really important,
one of the most critical ideas about git.
This is how git saves tons of space
on your hard drive when
storing full repositories.
It's one of the critical features that
has driven a lot of design decisions.
So as we commit, if that blob or the tree,
if it hasn't changed if it stays the same,
we're just gonna point to the same copy.
That's why checking out
branches in git is super fast.
Mark?
>> Speaker 2: There's some confusion
around the difference between the blob
the and the SHA-1 hash.
Like what is the difference?
>> Nina Zakharenko: So the SHA-1 hash is,
that number, in this example for
hello.txt, the SHA-1
hash starts with AAB68.
When you run hash object
on a piece of content,
that's the number that you'll get,
it's the key for that piece of content.
>> Speaker 2: And
the blob is the pointer to the hash?
Or what are you saying
when you say the blob?
>> Nina Zakharenko: The blob is,
it stores that key, so
that's how it knows which piece
of content it's associated with.
>> Speaker 2: So
that's like the data structure?
>> Nina Zakharenko: Yeah
can I go back a few slides?
>> Speaker 2: Yeah, sure.
>> Nina Zakharenko: So
I'm gonna go back to this slide.
So if you all have a terminal open,
let's try this out.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Type echo space,
and then,
make sure you get the punctuation and
the capitalization right.
>> Nina Zakharenko: If you run this on
your terminal and you copy it exactly,
you should get the same number.
Did everyone get the same result?
Awesome, all right.
So that number is what
happens when git runs
that content through a cryptographic
function that generates the hash.
Did that answer the question, Mark?
>> Speaker 2: I will not know because
there's like a delay in the stream.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Got it, okay.
>> Speaker 2: But yeah,
I mean like the question is like,
when you refer to a blob,
that's something other than this number.
The blog's essentially is
a pointer to this number.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Right.
>> Speaker 2: Okay.
>> Nina Zakharenko: And
we'll get into that in a few slides.
>> Speaker 2: Okay.
>> Nina Zakharenko: So
we were here talking about how identical
content is only stored once.
And how this allows git to
be incredibly efficient.
It looks like no one in
this room has worked with
an older version control system.
I know Mark said he has.
You have, you have, ok.
Back in the day before git when
you wanted to change branches,
do you remember what that was like,
it would just take forever.
It would go and fetch all
the copies down from the server and
it wasn't instantaneous, so
this is really pretty cool.
So git has some other optimizations too.
>> Nina Zakharenko: It's kind
of because of the way we work.
So as our files change,
they stay mostly similar.
We might add a method here or
there or change a comment line.
And the way that git deals with that, so
we already talked about how
git objects are compressed.
Git is going to optimize for
files staying mostly similar by
compressing these files
together into a Packfile.
The Packfile stores the object and
it stores something called a delta.
And that delta is the difference between
one version of the file and the next.
Pack files are generated
when generally you have too many
objects during garbage control.
Sorry, garbage collection.
It runs garbage collection under the hood,
generally every few weeks or
unless you ask it to.
These packfiles are also generated
when you push to a remote.
Deep-diving into this section of internals
is outside of the scope of this class.
But now you can kind of understand what's
going on under the hood when you see that
compressing deltas message
during to git push.
You guys have all seen that.
So you can easily poke around the .git
folder with newly created repository, but
once your repository gets too
big you do a lot of work in it.
Possibly after a push, those objects
are gonna start getting to compressed and
you won't just be able to peek at them.